Welcome back to Movie Recaps Today I will
show you a drama, mystery, thriller film from
2014, titled Before I go to sleep.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Christine wakes up in bed next to someone.
She gets up and grabs some clothes, then walks
into the bathroom.
One of the bathroom walls is covered in photographs
of her and the man.
She sees the weeding band on her hand, then
walks outside.
Ben is waiting for her on the bed.
He tells her that they got married 14 years
ago and that she's 40 years old.
As she gets dressed, he explains that she
had a car accident 14 years ago, because of
which she gained some injuries which made
it impossible for her to remember everything.
She stores up information for a day, then
when she goes to bed it all disappears and
when she wakes up she thinks she's in her
twenties.
He asks her to trust him, but she's scared.
While making breakfast, he keeps telling her
about their life together and their wedding.
Before he leaves for work, Ben shows her a
list of things she might need and where to
find them.
She sees a note which says that she needs
to pack a bag.
Ben tells her that he'll be taking her away
for their anniversary.
Christine is alone, trying to wrap her head
around everything when the telephone rings.
The voice on the other side is Doctor Nasch,
who's been working with her on getting her
memory restored.
He tells her that Ben might not know about
her seeing a doctor.
Then, he tells her to go look for a shoebox
in the back of her closet.
Christine opens the box and finds a camera
inside.
Nasch tells her to switch it on.
A recording of her plays, where she talks
about the problem with her memory.
Two weeks earlier, Christine is in a car with
Dr. Nasch, who admits that their professional
relationship is a little bit out of the ordinary
- with him picking her up from home and seeing
her without her husbands knowledge.
Christine is scared and confused.
They drive into a parking lot and he tells
her how he found her 6 months before.
He explains that he's a neuropsychologist
and that he's preparing a paper on the type
of amnesia she has, so he was willing to do
the work for free.
As they start walking to his office, Doctor
Nasch tells her that even though she didn't
remember who he was when he called the next
day, she still agreed to work with him.
Christine has mentioned working with a psychologist
to her husband, but he was adamantly against
it because she had therapy in the past and
it had only upset her.
In his office, he gives her the camera and
tells her to keep a visual diary.
Doctor Nasch tells her that her injuries were
sustained in a vicious attack 10 years before.
They came from repeated blows to the head.
She's confused because Ben had told her another
story.
The doctor shows her news articles about the
attack and she wonders why someone would try
to kill her.
He explains that no one really knows part
from her.
As they leave, he tells her not to tell Ben
about the camera so she doesn't feel constrained
to share her thoughts and feelings.
He tells her where to hide it and that he'll
call her in the morning to remind her.
She agrees to the plan.
That night, while Ben prepares cocoa for them,
Christine goes to the bathroom to record the
first entry in her video diary.
She explains about her memory and when she
hears Ben coming up, she scrambles to hide
the camera and goes to bed, pretending she's
already asleep.
Christine wakes up the next morning next to
Ben.
He pretends that he's still asleep.
They have the same conversation about her
memory, their life and her life.
She doesn't understand what she does all day
and looks disappointed.
Later, she's in the car with the doctor again,
watching the video.
Christine says that without the recordings
she would believe everything that Ben tells
her, like the car accident.
She wonders what else he lies to her about.
Doctor Nasch says that he can't risk calling
her on the house phone.
Christine tells him that she doesn't want
to be afraid all the time and asks if the
treatment he's planning for her will work.
Doctor Nasch explains that in rare cases,
going back to the scene of the attack helps
kick off the memory, but his reason behind
going there is building trust with her.
When they arrive at the industrial complex
they meet with the caretaker.
He takes them to the place where he found
her and tells them that she was naked, with
only a bed sheet around her and that she was
covered in blood.
She couldn't remember anything even then.
Back in the car, she asks Nasch what she was
doing by the airport.
He tells her that there are a lot of hotels
in the area and suggests that she might have
been having an affair.
The medical report indicated recent intercourse.
She asks him if she was raped, but the doctor
tells her that the report has suggested otherwise.
Christine can't believe she could be a cheater.
Later, she's in her bathroom saying that she
needs to remember what happened, no matter
what she has done.
She hears the sounds of children playing and
goes to check, but there's no one outside.
That night, she walks in to take a shower,
when Ben joins her and begins kissing her.
As they begin making love, she has a memory
of someone with a scar on his jaw.
They fall asleep together and Christine has
a dream about a hotel room and her attack.
The next day, tests are being performed on
Christine by doctor Nasch.
He shows her pictures that she needs to identify.
She looks at the pictures and gets upset so
she rings the panic button in the MRI.
Later, they talk in a waiting room and he
tells her that some of the pictures were random
and others were in her file.
The photo he shows her had produced a distinct
reaction in her brain.
Christine doesn’t know who the woman in
the photo is, even with the name Claire written
on it.
While having dinner with Ben that night, she
asks him if about Claire.
Ben says that he doesn't know her, then asks
why Christine is brining it up.
When she tells him that she had a memory,
he gets invested in the amount she remembers.
She mentions a few things, mostly from the
photo, and he tells her that it wasn't the
first time she had remembered Claire.
Ben says that they were friends once, but
that she moved away and that it doesn't matter
anymore.
Christine insists that it does matter.
Ben brings a box of photos he keeps in his
study.
They are of her and Claire.
She asks why he hides them from her and Ben
explains that he does that to protect her
from the fact that her friend couldn't handle
her situation.
Christine asks him how she could trust him
if he hides things from her, but Ben tells
her that he can't always handle dealing with
everything.
Later, she makes a new recording saying that
Ben is hiding Claire from her and that she
can't trust him.
After that, he sees that she has taped the
photos of Claire in the bathroom.
Doctor Nasch calls Christine and explains
everything to her all over again.
She watches the recording from the previous
day, the one saying not to trust Ben.
Then she zooms in, seeing that the photos
that were there the previous day are gone
now.
She gets angry and starts looking through
Ben's study to find something.
She finds a key which takes her to the photos.
Flipping through them she has a memory about
Claire and her telling her that she's pregnant.
She rushes to check the pictures in the bathroom
and the pictures in the albums, but there
is no evidence of a child she might have had.
Christine checks her stomach and sees her
stretch marks, the remembers a conversation
with her son.
She calls Ben to ask about their child and
he comes home instantly.
Christine is upset and wants to know where
their child is.
Ben embraces her and tells her that their
son died.
Once inside, he tells her that the child died
from meningitis before his ninth birthday.
He gets another box that he's hiding from
her so that she doesn't stumble upon them
by herself and shows her a photo of their
son Adam as a baby.
Christine cries, but she doesn't remember
him as she goes through the photos.
She sees his birth certificate and a note
in his handwriting.
Ben takes back the photos and later Christine
makes another video in which she says that
while the grief might not be new for Ben,
it is for her.
And it will be new every other day for the
rest of her life.
Christine has another nightmare about the
man with the scar and her attack.
She wakes up terrified, then watches her recordings
about Adam and cries.
Christine begins taking apart the wall of
photos in the bathroom.
When she talks to Nasch again she asks if
he knew about her son and he tells her that
they have spoken about him before.
She has begun thinking that maybe it's better
if she doesn't learn about everything.
Christine asks the doctor if they can just
sit there for a while, then asks if she should
tell Ben about the therapy.
That night, her and Ben talk about Adam again.
She asks if she was a good mother before the
accident.
Ben says that she loved him very much and
she has a memory about him for a moment.
Christine says that she understands how difficult
it must be for Ben to go though all of it
over and over, but tells him not to hide her
son from her again.
He apologizes to her.
That night Christine has another nightmare.
She's in a hotel and she can see her son there.
She finds a note that has the name Mike on
it and then remembers the man with the scar
again.
Lastly, she remembers parts of the attack.
Christine awakens and forgets everything again.
Christine is in the car with Doctor Nasch
going somewhere.
When they stop she tells him the name Mike,
saying that he's the man that hurt her.
The doctor comforts her and leans in to kiss
her when she sees that his name is Mike.
She remembers him as striking her in the hotel
room so she runs from the car.
He gets a syringe from his trunk and runs
after her on the long pier, eventually catching
up to her.
Later, Christine is on her couch, when her
phone rings.
She answers the call from Doctor Nasch and
he explains that he gave her a sedative to
calm her, not put her to sleep.
She remembers.
He tells her that she was confused and suffering
from fabulation about him, placing all her
fears and suspicions on him.
Before he hangs up, he says that he had found
out something about Ben that he will have
to explain to her in person.
Ben arrives at the house and they have dinner
together.
He asks her who she was talking to on the
phone when he tried to call her and she lies
saying she was calling him.
The next day, Christine is listening to Dr.
Nasch explain how vulnerable patients like
her can develop feelings for their psychiatrists.
What is less common is for the psychiatrists
to develop feelings for their patients.
He says that's unprofessional.
She thinks that he's her only hope and that
they're making progress, when he tells her
that he will refer her to a colleague.
Doctor Nasch thinks that treating her further
would be unethical.
But he thinks that her progress is noticeable
because she had remembered to watch the recording
even before he had called her that morning.
Next, he tells her that he found out that
Ben had her transferred from an asylum to
a nursing home.
The doctor managed to talk to the administrator
who told him that her friend Claire had been
trying to get in touch with her.
He gives her Clair's number.
The administrator also told Nasch that Ben
had divorced her 4 years prior.
Later, Christine calls Claire and leaves her
a message saying that she really needs to
talk to her.
She goes to see Ben at his work.
When she asks if they're divorced, he gets
angry, but she pushes for the truth.
Ben tells her that it's because of the death
of their son.
First he walked away from her, but he had
come back and he will never leave her again.
That same day, Claire calls Christine back.
She remembers bits and pieces about her, as
Claire tells her that she had kept ringing
the nursing home where Christine was placed.
She tells her that she misses her and want
to see her.
They arrange a meeting at an observatory in
an hour.
Christine goes to see Claire and waits for
her on a bench.
When, Claire shows up, Christine remembers
her.
They've missed each other very much.
Christine asks Claire if she was a good mother
and she replies that she was great.
Ben was also a good father.
She asks her friend who did that to her.
They grab a drink and Claire tells her that
she was probably having an affair.
She confessed it to her eventually, but never
gave her any details about the man.
Claire apologizes to her for telling Ben,
but she had to do it since she had already
told the police.
Christine thinks that that's the reason why
Ben never talks to her about anything, including
her.
Claire tells her that after her accident she
tried to help Ben out and the two of them
spent a lot of time together, eventually sleeping
together.
She decided to stay away from them because
of that.
Before Christine leaves, she gives her a note
that Ben left for her with Claire if she was
ever good enough to read and understand it.
The letter explains the reasons why he left
her.
In it Ben says that the main reason was the
happiness and wellbeing of their son, who
couldn't bare seeing her like that anymore.
Christine finishes the letter as Ben arrives
at the house.
She records a video in which she is talking
to Ben, telling him that by the time he sees
the video he will know everything, including
that the only thing she feels for him is love.
Later, Christine shows Ben the video she recorded
for him and starts telling him about everything
that has been happening in the previous weeks.
She tells him about Doctor Nasch and he's
angry that she kept that from him.
When she tells him that she forgives him and
that she loves him, he hits her.
Christine calls Claire and tells her what
has happened with Ben.
She says that she'll call him and call Christine
right back.
In the meantime, she records a video in which
she says that he hit her.
Claire calls her back and tells her that Ben
has been living alone and hasn't seen her
in 4 years.
She asks her to describe Ben to her.
Their descriptions don't match.
Claire tells her that Ben has a scar on the
side of his face and Christine has a flashback.
The Ben she knows comes back and she runs
to the bathroom to check the photos if he
has a scar.
When she doesn't see one, Claire tells her
that the man she's living with is not Ben.
Suddenly, Christine notices that all of the
photographs on the wall are doctored.
She begins to remember the attack and begs
Claire to help her, but she can't remember
her address.
Clare tells her to finds out, as Ben tries
to come inside.
She has another flashback to the attack, then
opens the door.
Ben isn't there.
Christine walks down the stairs and tries
to walk out of the main entrance, only to
find it locked.
She finds the key to the back door and exits
the house, when Ben suddenly grabs her.
Christine wakes up the following morning in
her bed with Ben.
She walks inside the bathroom and sees the
photos, then walks out to find him sitting
on the bed telling her who he is.
When he leaves, the doctor calls her and tells
her to find the camera.
She only sees the recording where she says
that she loves Ben.
After that she notices the bruise on her cheek.
The phone rings and it's Ben this time, asking
if everything is ok.
He has her cell phone which Claire is trying
to reach.
Ben reminds her to pack for their anniversary.
She tells him that she loves him.
Later, Nasch is trying to phone Christine,
when he gets called to the main reception.
Ben runs into him and introduces himself.
Nasch asks how Christine is and Ben tells
him to stay away from her.
That night, Ben and Christine take a drive
down to a hotel near the airport.
She asks if it's really their anniversary
and he tells her that it's not their wedding
anniversary, but one of a different kind.
Christine doesn't understand why he brought
her there.
He gives her a glass of champagne and tells
her that he wants her to remember her attack.
Suddenly, she remembers that he is actually
Mike.
Christine asks where Ben is and Mike tells
her that her husband left her, when he stayed.
He took her out of the nursing home with fake
documents, with the intention to take care
of her.
But now he's tired of lying and wants her
to remember everything.
Christine remembers the day of the attack
and him threatening her that he'll call her
husband, then hitting her.
She realizes that he was the one that attacked
her.
He tells her that he hates himself for what
happened and begs her not to leave.
Christine is scared because she remembers
details about the night when he attacked her.
Mike keeps begging her not to leave, but then
steps aside to see if she will and when she
does he hits her again.
He tells her that they will either leave together
or they won't leave at all.
Then, he begins to delete all of her recordings
from the camera and tells her that she's free.
Mike tells her to kiss him and she does it
out of fear.
He tells her that she has to forget Ben and
Adam because they have forgotten her.
Christine realizes that Adam isn't dead and
he starts beating her up again.
She fights back, but he overpowers her and
begins to strangle her.
Christine stabs him and tries to escape, though
he just grabs her again.
Eventually she incapacitates him and escapes
the room, then activates the fire alarm.
Ambulances and the police have circled the
hotel.
Christine is at the back of an ambulance,
recording a new video explaining what happened
to her.
Later, Dr. Nasch walks into her hospital room
and wakes her up telling her who he is.
He tells her that he is there as her friend
and not her doctor.
Because she needs someone to take care of
her, Claire will pick her up and take her
home with her.
He asks her if she remembers Clair.
Christine says that she does.
Nasch continues talking to her, saying that
Mike will be in prison for a long time for
what he did to her.
Then, he tells her that he has a visitor for
her that might become the breakthrough in
her treatment.
Nasch turns around and Ben, her real ex-husband
is at he door.
Doctor Nasch lets him inside the room.
He approaches her and tells her that he's
her Ben, that he never would have stayed away
if he knew she was in danger.
He sits down and tells her about Adam.
Ben says that both of them love her very much.
He goes out to get Adam.
The boy walks in and approaches his mother.
He introduces himself to her and she starts
remembering something that she used to say
to him when he was little.
Christine remembers him finally.
They embrace as she says that he's her Adam.